# FOCUS: Fully Optimized Convolutional Unet Segmentation for Tumor Detection

FOCUS is a streamlit application that serves to make the jobs of medical practitioners easier by automating the task of medical segmentaiton on images such as CT scans. This project takes a UNET neural network and makes inferences using inputted CT scans to produce a prediction of where a tumor might lie within someone's CT scans. This solves the problem of doctors having to do the time-consuming labor of manual medical segmentation themselves and which allows them to focus on equally-important tasks. This needs to be emphasized that FOCUS is meant to be a medical diagnostic aid rather than a tool that will replace the need for manual medical segmentation.

## Repository Contents
 
 ### Directory Tree
'''bash
 └── Project Folder (root directory)/
    ├── .devcontainer folder/
    │   └── devcontainer.json
    ├── documentation folder/
    │   ├── AI System Project Proposal (Doug).docx
    │   ├── FOCUS_Final_Report.docx
    │   └── README.md
    ├── monitoring folder/
    │   ├── prometheus folder/
    │   │   └── prometheus.yaml
    │   ├── loss.png
    │   └── mean_dice.png
    ├── src folder/
    │   ├── .streamlit folder/
    │   │   └── config.toml
    │   ├── models folder/
    │   │   └── model.pth
    │   ├── app.py
    │   ├── requirements.txt
    │   ├── test.ipynb
    │   ├── UNet_notebook.ipynb
    │   └── UNet_script.py
    ├── videos folder/
    │   └── FOCUS_demo.mp4
    └── .gitignore
'''

**Purpose of Each Folder**

* .devcontainer was generated by streamlit to allow for deployment
* documentation was created to store the documentation I had for this project
* monitoring was created to store my prometheus folder that contains my prometheus yaml file
* src was created to contain the actual source code for FOCUS as well as any training notebooks I used for training my model
* videos folder was created to contain my video demo

## System Entry Point

To run locally you need to do the following steps:

1. git clone repo
2. open terminal into the src folder
3. install dependencies using the requirements.txt. The command should be pip install -r requirements.txt
4. type this command into the terminal: streamlit run app.py

To run deployment:

1. Type https://douglas-focus.streamlit.app/ into your browser

## Video Demo

Included inside of the videos folder

## Deployment Strategy

Deployed solely using connecting GitHub into the share.streamlit interface. All that is needed for setup is making an account on share.streamlit that connects to your github and connect repo to interface. Performance metrics are recorded through prometheus.

## Monitoring and Metrics

For monitoring I used prometheus to record my evaluation metrics. This uses my prometheus yaml to scrape the metrics. 

## Project Documentation

All documentation for this project is located in the documentation folder. Both the template I used throughout the semester as well as my final report

## Version Control

My only versional control was through github when I made many different commits for FOCUS.

## Not Applicable

I do not really have a deployment folder except for the .devcontainer which is what streamlit uses to host applications. This folder alone was enough for me to host my application.
